docs/src/install/alt_workflows/overview.md, before:

# Overview

Everyone's computing needs are different, so we ensured that Quacc is interoperable with a variety of modern workflow management tools. There are over [300+](https://workflows.community/systems) workflow management tools out there, so we can't possibly cover them all. Instead, we have focused on the most popular tools that we have tested and found to be compatible with Quacc with minimal additional coding required. The recommended solutions below each use a decorator-based approach to defining workflows, and the basic syntax is very similar across all of them.

## Covalent

The default suggested workflow management solution is [Covalent](https://github.com/AgnostiqHQ/covalent/) due to its ease of use and helpful dashboard. If you are new to workflow management tools or primarily care about computing across distributed resources, this will likely be the best option for you.

Pros:

- Extremely simple to setup and use, even for complex workflows
- Best-in-class visual dashboard for job monitoring
- Designed with HPC environments in mind but also supports cloud compute
- Excellent documentation
- Automatic and simple database integration

Cons:

- Still actively in development
- Not as widely used as other workflow management solutions
- For HPC, it currently only supports the Slurm job scheduler out-of-the-box, although custom plugins can be defined
- High-security HPC environments may be difficult to access with the centralized server approach

## Parsl

[Parsl](https://github.com/Parsl/parsl) is a workflow management solution out of Argonne National Laboratory, the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois. It is well-adapted for running on HPC environments with a job scheduler. Parsl is especially useful for "jobpacking," where instead of each task being an individual (e.g. Slurm) job, a long-running worker will continually pull in and distribute tasks within a single Slurm job until the walltime is reached. This can be useful because it is often easier to move through the queue by requesting a single large job rather than many small jobs.

Pros:

- Widely used and tested across a variety of HPC environments
- Relatively simple to define the workflows
- Active community, particularly across academia
- Ideal for jobpacking and has near-ideal scaling performance
- Thorough documentation

Cons:

- Defining the right configuration options for your HPC machine can be a challenge
- The visual dashboard is not as user friendly as some other solutions
- It is not trivial to run across distributed HPC environments
- The concept of always returning a "future" object can be confusing for new users

## Prefect

[Prefect](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect) is arguably one of the most popular workflow management solutions in industry. It is extremely powerful and flexible, but most users of Prefect do not use it to run on HPC environments with job schedulers, although this is possible.

Pros:

- Very popular with an extremely active community
- Simple to define tasks and workflows
- Clear documentation
- Easy-to-use dashboard for job monitoring
- Ideal for running on cloud-based resources

Cons:

- Support for HPC environments is possible, but there is minimal documentation
- Defining the right configuration options for your HPC machine can be a challenge
- Setting up a continually running agent can be a challenge for new users
- Can be expensive for many users if not self-hosting the server

## Jobflow + FireWorks

If you are affiliated with the Materials Project team at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, we recommend using [Jobflow](https://github.com/materialsproject/jobflow) coupled with [FireWorks](https://github.com/materialsproject/fireworks) since it widely used there.

Pros:

- Supported and battle-tested by the well-established Materials Project team
- FireWorks is well-suited for a variety of job management approaches
- Simple interface for defining individual jobs and workflows via Jobflow
- Native support for databases

Cons:

- FireWorks has a steep learning curve with many configuration options
- FireWorks documentation can be difficult to navigate without prior experience
- Defining dynamic workflows with Jobflow is slightly more complex than other solutions
- The strong emphasis on using a database can be a barrier to entry

Commit message:

Further clarification to tutorial docs (#510)
Co-authored-by: deepsource-autofix[bot] <62050782+deepsource-autofix[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/src/install/alt_workflows/overview.md, after:

# Overview

Everyone's computing needs are different, so we ensured that Quacc is interoperable with a variety of modern workflow management tools. There are over [300+](https://workflows.community/systems) workflow management tools out there, so we can't possibly cover them all. Instead, we have focused on the most popular tools that we have tested and found to be compatible with Quacc with minimal additional coding required. The recommended solutions below each use a decorator-based approach to defining workflows, and the basic syntax is very similar across all of them.

## Covalent

The default suggested workflow management solution is [Covalent](https://github.com/AgnostiqHQ/covalent/) due to its ease of use and helpful dashboard. If you are new to workflow management tools or primarily care about computing across distributed resources, this will likely be the best option for you.

Pros:

- Extremely simple to setup and use, even for complex workflows
- Best-in-class visual dashboard for job monitoring
- Designed with HPC environments in mind but also supports cloud compute
- Excellent documentation
- Automatic and simple database integration

Cons:

- Still actively in development
- Not as widely used as other workflow management solutions
- For HPC, it currently only supports the Slurm job scheduler out-of-the-box, although custom plugins can be defined
- High-security HPC environments may be difficult to access with the centralized server approach

## Parsl

[Parsl](https://github.com/Parsl/parsl) is a workflow management solution out of Argonne National Laboratory, the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois. It is well-adapted for running on HPC environments with a job scheduler. Parsl is especially useful for "jobpacking," where instead of each task being an individual (e.g. Slurm) job, a long-running worker will continually pull in and distribute tasks within a single Slurm job until the walltime is reached. This can be useful because it is often easier to move through the queue by requesting a single large job rather than many small jobs.

Pros:

- Extremely configurable for virtually any HPC environment
- Relatively simple to define the workflows
- Active community, particularly across academia
- Ideal for jobpacking and has near-ideal scaling performance
- Thorough documentation

Cons:

- Defining the right configuration options for your desired HPC setup can be a challenge
- The visual dashboard is not as user friendly as some other solutions
- It is not designed for workflows with steps running across multiple resources
- The concept of always returning a "future" object can be confusing for new users

## Prefect

[Prefect](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect) is arguably one of the most popular workflow management solutions in industry. It is extremely powerful and flexible, but most users of Prefect do not use it to run on HPC environments with job schedulers, although this is possible.

Pros:

- Very popular in the data science industry with an extremely active community
- Simple to define tasks and workflows
- Clear documentation
- Easy-to-use dashboard for job monitoring

Cons:

- Not as widely used for HPC environments and lacks documentation in this area
- Defining the right configuration options for your desired HPC setup can be a challenge
- Setting up a continually running agent can be a challenge for new users

## Jobflow + FireWorks

If you are affiliated with the Materials Project team at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, we recommend using [Jobflow](https://github.com/materialsproject/jobflow) coupled with [FireWorks](https://github.com/materialsproject/fireworks) since it widely used there.

Pros:

- FireWorks is well-suited for a variety of job management approaches
- Simple interface for defining individual jobs and workflows via Jobflow
- Helpful dashboard for monitoring job progress
- Native support for databases

Cons:

- FireWorks can have a steep learning curve due to its many configuration options
- FireWorks documentation can be difficult to navigate without prior experience
- Defining dynamic workflows with Jobflow is slightly more complex than other solutions
- The strong emphasis on using a database can be a barrier to entry
