docs/user/wflow_syntax.md, before:

# Workflow Syntax

## Introduction

All of the solutions below have a similar decorator-based syntax for compute tasks and workflows. Here, we highlight these differences. For a comparison of the pros and cons of each approach, refer to the [Workflow Engines Overview](wflow_overview.md) page.

## Simple Workflow

Let's do the following:

1. Add two numbers (e.g. `#!Python 1 + 2`)
2. Multiply the output of Step 1 by a third number (e.g. `#!Python 3 * 3`)

In practice, we would want each of the two tasks to be their own compute job.

=== "No Workflow Engine"

    ```python
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        return mult(add(a, b), c)

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # 9
    ```

=== "Covalent"

    ```python
    import covalent as ct

    @ct.electron
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @ct.electron
    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    @ct.lattice
    def workflow(a, b, c):
        return mult(add(a, b), c)

    # Locally
    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # 9

    # Dispatched
    dispatch_id = ct.dispatch(workflow)(1, 2, 3)
    result = ct.get_result(dispatch_id, wait=True) # 9
    ```

=== "Parsl"

    ```python
    from parsl import python_app

    @python_app
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @python_app
    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        return mult(add(a, b), c)

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3).result() # 9
    ```

=== "Jobflow"

    ```python
    from jobflow import job, Flow, run_locally

    @job
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @job
    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    job1 = add(1, 2)
    job2 = mult(job1.output, 3)
    flow = Flow([job1, job2], output=job2.output)

    responses = run_locally(flow)
    result = responses[job2.uuid][1].output # 9
    ```

## Dynamic Workflow

Let's do the following:

1. Add two numbers (e.g. `#!Python 1 + 2`)
2. Make a list of copies of the output from Step 1 (e.g. `#!Python [3, 3, 3]`) where the size of the list is not known until runtime
3. Add a third number to each element of the list from Step 2 (e.g. `#!Python [3 + 3, 3 + 3, 3 + 3]`)

We will treat this as a dynamic workflow where the number of elements in the list from Step 2 may not necessarily be known until runtime. In practice, we would want each of the individual addition tasks to be their own compute job.

=== "No Workflow Engine"

    ```python
    import random

    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    def make_more(val):
        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        result1 = add(a, b)
        result2 = make_more(result1)
        return [add(val, c) for val in result2]

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # e.g. [6, 6, 6]
    ```

=== "Covalent"

    ```python

    import random
    import covalent as ct

    @ct.electron
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @ct.electron
    def make_more(val):
        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    @ct.electron
    @ct.lattice
    def add_distributed(vals, c):
        return [add(val, c) for val in vals]

    @ct.lattice
    def workflow(a, b, c):
        result1 = add(a, b)
        result2 = make_more(result1)
        return add_distributed(result2, c)

    # Locally
    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # e.g. [6, 6, 6]

    # Dispatched
    dispatch_id = ct.dispatch(workflow)(1, 2, 3)
    result = ct.get_result(dispatch_id, wait=True) # e.g. [6, 6, 6]
    ```

=== "Parsl"

    ```python
    from parsl import join_app, python_app

    @python_app
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @python_app
    def make_more(val):
        import random

        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    @join_app
    def add_distributed(vals, c):
        return [add(val, c) for val in vals]

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        future1 = add(a, b)
        future2 = make_more(future1)
        return add_distributed(future2, c)

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3).result() # e.g. [6, 6, 6]
    ```

=== "Jobflow"

    ```python
    import random
    from jobflow import job, Flow, Response, run_locally

    @job
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @job
    def make_more(val):
        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    @job
    def add_distributed(vals, c):
        jobs = []
        for val in vals:
            jobs.append(add(val, c))
        return Response(replace=Flow(jobs))

    job1 = add(1, 2)
    job2 = make_more(job1.output)
    job3 = add_distributed(job2.output, 3)
    flow = Flow([job1, job2, job3])

    responses = run_locally(flow) # e.g. [6, 6, 6] (job3.output)
    ```

Commit message:

Add `mermaid` flowcharts to docs (#545)

docs/user/wflow_syntax.md, after:

# Workflow Syntax

## Introduction

Here, we provide code snippets for several decorator-based workflow engines. For a comparison of the pros and cons of each approach, refer to the [Workflow Engines Overview](wflow_overview.md) page.

## Simple Workflow

Let's do the following:

1. Add two numbers (e.g. `#!Python 1 + 2`)
2. Multiply the output of Step 1 by a third number (e.g. `#!Python 3 * 3`)

In practice, we would want each of the two tasks to be their own compute job.

```mermaid
graph LR
  A[Input] --> B(add) --> C(mult) --> D[Output];
```

=== "No Workflow Engine"

    ```python
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        return mult(add(a, b), c)

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # 9
    ```

=== "Covalent"

    ```python
    import covalent as ct

    @ct.electron
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @ct.electron
    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    @ct.lattice
    def workflow(a, b, c):
        return mult(add(a, b), c)

    # Locally
    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # 9

    # Dispatched
    dispatch_id = ct.dispatch(workflow)(1, 2, 3)
    result = ct.get_result(dispatch_id, wait=True) # 9
    ```

=== "Parsl"

    ```python
    from parsl import python_app

    @python_app
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @python_app
    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        return mult(add(a, b), c)

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3).result() # 9
    ```

=== "Jobflow"

    ```python
    from jobflow import job, Flow, run_locally

    @job
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @job
    def mult(a, b):
        return a * b

    job1 = add(1, 2)
    job2 = mult(job1.output, 3)
    flow = Flow([job1, job2])

    responses = run_locally(flow)
    result = responses[job2.uuid][1].output # 9
    ```

## Dynamic Workflow

Let's do the following:

1. Add two numbers (e.g. `#!Python 1 + 2`)
2. Make a list of copies of the output from Step 1 (e.g. `#!Python [3, 3, 3]`) where the size of the list is not known until runtime
3. Add a third number to each element of the list from Step 2 (e.g. `#!Python [3 + 3, 3 + 3, 3 + 3]`)

We will treat this as a dynamic workflow where the number of elements in the list from Step 2 may not necessarily be known until runtime. In practice, we would want each of the individual addition tasks to be their own compute job.

```mermaid
graph LR
  A[Input] --> B(add) --> C(make_more)
  C --> D(add) --> G[Output];
  C --> E(add) --> G[Output];
  C --> F(add) --> G[Output];
```

=== "No Workflow Engine"

    ```python
    import random

    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    def make_more(val):
        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        result1 = add(a, b)
        result2 = make_more(result1)
        return [add(val, c) for val in result2]

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # e.g. [6, 6, 6]
    ```

=== "Covalent"

    ```python

    import random
    import covalent as ct

    @ct.electron
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @ct.electron
    def make_more(val):
        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    @ct.electron
    @ct.lattice
    def add_distributed(vals, c):
        return [add(val, c) for val in vals]

    @ct.lattice
    def workflow(a, b, c):
        result1 = add(a, b)
        result2 = make_more(result1)
        return add_distributed(result2, c)

    # Locally
    result = workflow(1, 2, 3) # e.g. [6, 6, 6]

    # Dispatched
    dispatch_id = ct.dispatch(workflow)(1, 2, 3)
    result = ct.get_result(dispatch_id, wait=True) # e.g. [6, 6, 6]
    ```

=== "Parsl"

    ```python
    from parsl import join_app, python_app

    @python_app
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @python_app
    def make_more(val):
        import random

        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    @join_app
    def add_distributed(vals, c):
        return [add(val, c) for val in vals]

    def workflow(a, b, c):
        future1 = add(a, b)
        future2 = make_more(future1)
        return add_distributed(future2, c)

    result = workflow(1, 2, 3).result() # e.g. [6, 6, 6]
    ```

=== "Jobflow"

    ```python
    import random
    from jobflow import job, Flow, Response, run_locally

    @job
    def add(a, b):
        return a + b

    @job
    def make_more(val):
        return [val] * random.randint(2, 5)

    @job
    def add_distributed(vals, c):
        jobs = []
        for val in vals:
            jobs.append(add(val, c))
        return Response(replace=Flow(jobs))

    job1 = add(1, 2)
    job2 = make_more(job1.output)
    job3 = add_distributed(job2.output, 3)
    flow = Flow([job1, job2, job3])

    responses = run_locally(flow) # e.g. [6, 6, 6] (job3.output)
    ```
