docs/user/wflow_overview.md, before:

# Workflow Engines Overview

Everyone's computing needs are different, so we ensured that quacc is interoperable with a variety of modern workflow management tools. There are over [300+ workflow management tools](https://workflows.community/systems) out there, so we can't possibly cover them all. Instead, we have focused on the most popular tools that we have tested and found to be compatible with quacc with minimal additional coding required. The recommended solutions below each use a decorator-based approach to defining workflows, and the basic syntax is very similar across all of them.

## How to Choose a Workflow Engine

If you aren't sure which workflow engine to choose, check out the Pros and Cons lists below.

Generally, we recommend either **Covalent** or **Parsl**, which have nearly identical syntax:

- If you're using an HPC cluster and can SSH into the login node without the need for multi-factor authentication each connection, then try Covalent.
- If automated SSH connections to the login node are not viable or relying on a centralized server isn't desirable, Parsl is likely the best option.
- Jobflow with FireWorks is best-suited if you are working at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory where it is already in active use.
- Prefect support is currently experimental.

## Pros and Cons

=== "Covalent"

    [Covalent](https://github.com/AgnostiqHQ/covalent/) is a workflow management solution from the company [Agnostiq](https://agnostiq.ai/). It is currently the default option in quacc due to its simplicity for new users and diverse range of execution options.

    Pros:

    - Extremely simple to setup and use, even for complex workflows
    - Best-in-class visual dashboard for job monitoring
    - Easy to use in distributed, heterogeneous compute environments
    - Excellent documentation
    - Automatic and simple database integration
    - The compute nodes do not need to be able to connect to the internet

    Cons:

    - Still actively in development
    - Not as widely used as other workflow management solutions
    - It requires a centralized server to be running continuously in order to manage the workflows
    - High-security HPC environments may be difficult to access via SSH with the centralized server approach

=== "Jobflow"

    [Jobflow](https://github.com/materialsproject/jobflow) is developed and maintained by the Materials Project team at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and serves as a seamless interface to [FireWorks](https://github.com/materialsproject/fireworks) for dispatching and monitoring compute jobs.

    **Jobflow**

    Pros:

    - Simple interface for defining individual jobs and workflows
    - Native support for databases
    - Directly compatible with Atomate2
    - Actively supported by the Materials Project team

    Cons:

    - Parsing the output of a workflow is not as intuitive as other solutions
    - Defining dynamic workflows with Jobflow's `Response` object can be slightly more complex than other solutions
    - Only supports FireWorks for job dispatching at the moment

    **FireWorks**:

    Pros:

    - FireWorks is well-suited for a variety of job management approaches
    - Helpful dashboard for monitoring job progress

    Cons:

    - FireWorks documentation can be difficult to navigate without prior experience
    - FireWorks can have a steep learning curve due to its many configuration options
    - The reliance on MongoDB can be challenging for new users and certain HPC environments
    - New features are not currently planned

=== "Parsl"

    [Parsl](https://github.com/Parsl/parsl) is a workflow management solution out of Argonne National Laboratory, the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois. It is well-adapted for running on virtually any HPC environment with a job scheduler.

    Pros:

    - Extremely configurable for virtually any HPC environment
    - Relatively simple to define the workflows
    - Active community, particularly across academia
    - Ideal for jobpacking (e.g. packing many compute tasks into a single compute job) and has near-ideal scaling performance
    - Thorough documentation
    - Does not rely on maintaining a centralized server of any kind

    Cons:

    - Defining the right configuration options for your desired HPC setup can be an initial hurdle
    - Monitoring job progress is more challenging and less detailed than other solutions
    - Challenging to orchestrate workflows with steps running across heterogeneous resources
    - The concept of always returning a "future" object can be confusing for new users

=== "Prefect"

    [Prefect](https://www.prefect.io/) is a workflow management system that is widely adopted in the data science industry.

    !!! Warning

        Prefect support should be considered experimental at this time.

    Pros:

    - Very popular in the data science industry with an active community
    - Useful dashboard to monitor job progress
    - Supports a variety of job schedulers via `dask-jobqueue`
    - Uses a directed acyclic graph-free model for increased flexibility in workflow definitions

    Cons:

    - Lacks documentation for HPC environments, although it supports them
    - Learning the intricacies of Dask can be challenging for new users
    - Requires the compute nodes to be able to make an outbound network connection
    - The dashboard stores results for only a 7 day history by default and does not store the full output of each task

Commit message:

Clarify workflow engine options (#668)
Emphasize Covalent and Parsl as the go-tos.

docs/user/wflow_overview.md, after:

# Workflow Engines Overview

Everyone's computing needs are different, so we ensured that quacc is interoperable with a variety of modern workflow management tools. There are [300+ workflow management tools](https://workflows.community/systems) out there, so we can't possibly support them all. Instead, we have focused on a select few that adopt a similar decorator-based approach to defining workflows with substantial support for HPC systems.

## Choosing a Workflow Engine

### Summary

!!! Tip

    Generally, we recommend either **Covalent** or **Parsl** for most users, depending on your prior experience and goals.

My highly subjective ranking system for various features of the supported workflow engines is summarized below.

| Workflow Engine     | Ease-of-Use[^1] | GUI[^2] | Flexibility[^3] | HPC Batch[^4] | Cloud[^5] | Pilot Jobs[^6] |
|:---------------------:|:-------------:|:-----:|:-------------:|:-----------:|:-------:|:-------------:| 
| Covalent            | 😍          | 😍 | 😀          | 😀       | 😍    | 😢         | 😍
| Jobflow + FireWorks | 😐          | 😐 | 😀          | 😍       | 😢   | 😐         | 😐
| Parsl               | 😀          | ☹️ | 😍          | 😍       | 😐    | 😍         | 😍
| Prefect             | 😐          | 😀 | 😀          | ☹️       | 😍    | ☹️         | ☹️

    [^1]: How easy is it to learn the syntax, set configuration options, and dispatch a workflow? 
    [^2]: How useful is the GUI for monitoring and analyzing workflows?
    [^3]: How flexible is the workflow engine in terms of ways to configure job execution?
    [^4]: How well does the workflow engine operate with HPC batch job schedulers?
    [^5]: How well does the workflow engine operate with cloud compute resources?
    [^6]: How easy is it to use a [pilot job](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilot_job) model?

### Pros and Cons

=== "Covalent"

    [Covalent](https://github.com/AgnostiqHQ/covalent/) is a workflow management solution from the company [Agnostiq](https://agnostiq.ai/). It is currently the default option in quacc due to its simplicity for new users and diverse range of execution options.

    Pros:

    - Extremely simple to setup and use, even for complex workflows
    - Best-in-class visual dashboard for job monitoring
    - Easy to use in distributed, heterogeneous compute environments
    - Excellent documentation
    - Automatic and simple database integration
    - The compute nodes do not need to be able to connect to the internet

    Cons:

    - Still actively in development
    - Not as widely used as other workflow management solutions
    - It requires a centralized server to be running continuously in order to manage the workflows
    - High-security HPC environments may be difficult to access via SSH with the centralized server approach

=== "Jobflow"

    [Jobflow](https://github.com/materialsproject/jobflow) is developed and maintained by the Materials Project team at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and serves as a seamless interface to [FireWorks](https://github.com/materialsproject/fireworks) for dispatching and monitoring compute jobs.

    **Jobflow**

    Pros:

    - Simple interface for defining individual jobs and workflows
    - Native support for databases
    - Directly compatible with Atomate2
    - Actively supported by the Materials Project team

    Cons:

    - Parsing the output of a workflow is not as intuitive as other solutions
    - Defining dynamic workflows with Jobflow's `Response` object can be slightly more complex than other solutions
    - Only supports FireWorks for job dispatching at the moment

    **FireWorks**:

    Pros:

    - FireWorks is well-suited for a variety of job management approaches
    - Helpful dashboard for monitoring job progress

    Cons:

    - FireWorks documentation can be difficult to navigate without prior experience
    - FireWorks can have a steep learning curve due to its many configuration options
    - The reliance on MongoDB can be challenging for new users and certain HPC environments
    - New features are not currently planned

=== "Parsl"

    [Parsl](https://github.com/Parsl/parsl) is a workflow management solution out of Argonne National Laboratory, the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois. It is well-adapted for running on virtually any HPC environment with a job scheduler.

    Pros:

    - Extremely configurable for virtually any HPC environment
    - Relatively simple to define the workflows
    - Active community, particularly across academia
    - Well-suited for [pilot jobs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilot_job) and has near-ideal scaling performance
    - Thorough documentation
    - Does not rely on maintaining a centralized server of any kind

    Cons:

    - Defining the right configuration options for your desired HPC setup can be an initial hurdle
    - Monitoring job progress is more challenging and less detailed than other solutions
    - Challenging to orchestrate workflows with steps running across heterogeneous resources
    - The concept of always returning a "future" object can be confusing for new users

=== "Prefect"

    [Prefect](https://www.prefect.io/) is a workflow management system that is widely adopted in the data science industry.

    !!! Warning

        Prefect support should be considered experimental at this time.

    Pros:

    - Very popular in the data science industry with an active community
    - Useful dashboard to monitor job progress
    - Supports a variety of job schedulers via `dask-jobqueue`
    - Uses a directed acyclic graph-free model for increased flexibility in workflow definitions

    Cons:

    - Lacks documentation for HPC environments, although it supports them
    - Learning the intricacies of Dask can be challenging for new users
    - Requires the compute nodes to be able to make an outbound network connection
    - The dashboard stores results for only a 7 day history by default and does not store the full output of each task
