docs/user/db/basics.md, before:

# Setup and Storing Results

Here, we describe how to set up quacc with a database of your choosing.

=== "General Purpose"

    You can store the output of quacc jobs and flows in your database of choice by defining a [Maggma data store](https://materialsproject.github.io/maggma/reference/stores/).

    For instance, let's pretend you have decided to make a [`MongoStore`](https://materialsproject.github.io/maggma/reference/stores/#maggma.stores.mongolike.MongoStore) be your database of choice. Instantiating that class might look like the following

    ```python
    from maggma.stores import MongoStore

    store = MongoStore(
        database="my_db_name",
        collection_name="my_collection_name",
        username="my_username",
        password="my_password",
        host="my_hostname",
        port=27017,
    )
    ```

    Then, to store results in your database, you can use the [quacc.wflow_tools.db.results_to_db][] function, as shown in the example below.

    ```python
    from maggma.stores import MongoStore
    from quacc.wflow_tools.db import results_to_db

    # Let `results` be an output (or list of outputs) from quacc recipes

    # Define your database details
    store = MongoStore(
        database="my_db_name",
        collection_name="my_collection_name",
        username="my_username",
        password="my_password",
        host="my_hostname",
        port=27017,
    )

    # Store the results
    results_to_db(store, results)
    ```

=== "Covalent"

    Covalent automatically stores all the inputs and outputs in an SQLite database, which you can find at the `"db_path"` when you run `covalent config`, and the results can be queried using the `#!Python ct.get_result(<dispatch ID>)` syntax.

=== "Prefect"

    To use a database with Prefect, read the [Database](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/concepts/database/) section of the Prefect documentation as well as how to [persist results](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/concepts/results/#persisting-results).

=== "Jobflow"

    If you are using Jobflow to construct your workflows, it will automatically store the results in the database you defined during the [setup process](../../install/wflow_engines.md). No additional steps are needed.

Commit message:

Refactor CI (#3028)
## Summary of Changes

Refactor the CI and requirements.

### Requirements

- [X] My PR is focused on a [single feature addition or
bugfix](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/best-practices-for-pull-requests#write-small-prs).
- [X] My PR has relevant, comprehensive [unit
tests](https://quantum-accelerators.github.io/quacc/dev/contributing.html#unit-tests).
- [X] My PR is on a [custom
branch](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository)
(i.e. is _not_ named `main`).

Note: If you are an external contributor, you will see a comment from
[@buildbot-princeton](https://github.com/buildbot-princeton). This is
solely for the maintainers.

---------

Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/user/db/basics.md, after:

# Setup and Storing Results

Here, we describe how to set up quacc with a database of your choosing.

=== "General Purpose"

    You can store the output of quacc jobs and flows in your database of choice by defining a [Maggma data store](https://materialsproject.github.io/maggma/reference/stores/).

    For instance, let's pretend you have decided to make a [`MongoStore`](https://materialsproject.github.io/maggma/reference/stores/#maggma.stores.mongolike.MongoStore) be your database of choice. Instantiating that class might look like the following

    ```python
    from maggma.stores import MongoStore

    store = MongoStore(
        database="my_db_name",
        collection_name="my_collection_name",
        username="my_username",
        password="my_password",
        host="my_hostname",
        port=27017,
    )
    ```

    Then, to store results in your database, you can use the following script:

    ```python
    from maggma.stores import MongoStore
    from monty.json import jsanitize

    # Let `results` be of type `list[dict]` containing outputs from quacc recipes

    # Define your database details
    store = MongoStore(
        database="my_db_name",
        collection_name="my_collection_name",
        username="my_username",
        password="my_password",
        host="my_hostname",
        port=27017,
    )

    # Store the results
    sanitized_results = [
        jsanitize(result, enum_values=True, recursive_msonable=True) for result in results
    ]

    for result in sanitized_results:
        result["uuid"] = str(uuid.uuid4())

    with store:
        store.update(sanitized_results, key="uuid")
    ```

=== "Covalent"

    Covalent automatically stores all the inputs and outputs in an SQLite database, which you can find at the `"db_path"` when you run `covalent config`, and the results can be queried using the `#!Python ct.get_result(<dispatch ID>)` syntax.

=== "Prefect"

    To use a database with Prefect, read the [Database](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/concepts/database/) section of the Prefect documentation as well as how to [persist results](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/concepts/results/#persisting-results).

=== "Jobflow"

    If you are using Jobflow to construct your workflows, it will automatically store the results in the database you defined during the [setup process](../../install/wflow_engines.md). No additional steps are needed.
