docs/install/wflow_engines.md, before:

# Workflow Engine Setup

Using a workflow engine is a crucial component for scaling up quacc calculations in a high-throughput setting. We describe the necessary installation steps here for the workflow manager of your choosing.

!!! Tip

    If you are just getting started with workflow engines, we recommend trying Covalent. For a comparison of the different compatible workflow engines, refer to the [Workflow Engines Overview](../user/wflow_overview.md) section.

=== "Covalent"

    **Starting the Server**

    Covalent uses a server to dispatch and store calculation details and results. To start the server, simply run `covalent start` in your terminal. It will return a URL that you can use to access the Covalent dashboard, which is shown below.

    ![Covalent UI](../images/install/ui_blank.jpg)

    !!! Tip

        Once you start scaling up your calculations, we recommend hosting the Covalent server on a dedicated machine or using [Covalent Cloud](https://www.covalent.xyz/cloud/). Refer to the [Covalent Deployment Guide](https://docs.covalent.xyz/docs/user-documentation/server-deployment) for details.

    **Plugin Installation**

    Depending on where you wish to run your quacc calculations, you may need to install the corresponding Covalent plugin, as described in the [Covalent plugin documentation](https://docs.covalent.xyz/docs/features/executor-plugins/exe). If you are using a typical HPC system with a job scheduler, you will probably want to use the [`HPCExecutor` plugin](https://github.com/arosen93/covalent-hpc-plugin), which supports Slurm, PBS, LSF, Flux, and more.

    **Optional Configuration**

    Covalent has several [configuration options](https://docs.covalent.xyz/docs/user-documentation/how-to/customization/) that can be modified. Running `quacc config` automatically takes care of setting the ones that are critical for quacc to run properly. If you ever delete your Covalent configuration (e.g. via `covalent purge`), you will need to re-run `quacc config`.

    !!! Tip

        If you are using Perlmutter at NERSC, you will need to set `export COVALENT_CONFIG_DIR="$SCRATCH/.config/covalent"` (e.g. in your `~/.bashrc`) because the home directory does not support file locking.

=== "Parsl"

    In your activated Python environment, install Parsl via `pip install parsl`. Parsl has [many configuration options](https://parsl.readthedocs.io/en/stable/userguide/configuring.html), which we will cover later in the documentation.

=== "Jobflow"

    **MongoDB Setup**

    Jobflow and FireWorks both require the use of a database to store calculation results. If you haven't done so already, first create a Mongo database as described in the ["MongoDB Setup"](config_db.md) section.

    !!! Note

        If it is not possible to use MongoDB, you can use a variety of other data store options available within the [maggma package](https://github.com/materialsproject/maggma), including a [`MontyStore`](https://materialsproject.github.io/maggma/reference/stores/#maggma.stores.mongolike.MontyStore) that solely relies on the local filesystem.

    **Jobflow DB Setup**

    If you plan to use Jobflow to write your workflows, you will need to make a `jobflow.yaml` file. This file will generally be formatted like the example below. Fill in the fields with the appropriate values for your MongoDB cluster, which is where all your calculation inputs and outputs will be stored.

    ```yaml title="jobflow.yaml"
    JOB_STORE:
    docs_store:
        type: MongoStore
        host: <host name>
        port: 27017
        username: <username>
        password: <password>
        database: <database name>
        collection_name: <collection name>
    ```

    !!! Note

        If you are using a URI (as is common with MongoDB Atlas), then you will instead have a `jobflow.yaml` file that looks like the example below. Here, you will put the full URI in the `host` field. The `username` and `password` are part of the URI and so should not be included elsewhere in the YAML file.

        ```yaml title="jobflow.yaml"
        JOB_STORE:
        docs_store:
            type: MongoStore
            host: <URI>
            port: 27017
            database: <database name>
            collection_name: <collection name>
        ```

    You will then need to define a `JOBFLOW_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable pointing to the file you made. For instance, in your `~/.bashrc` file, add the following line:
    `export JOBFLOW_CONFIG_FILE="/path/to/my/jobflow.yaml"`.

    **FireWorks Installation**

    To install quacc with support for FireWorks to launch Jobflow-generated workflows, run `pip install fireworks`.

    **FireWorks DB Setup**

    If you plan to use FireWorks to dispatch your Jobflow workflows, you will also need to make a few configuration files: `FW_config.yaml`, `my_fworker.yaml`, `my_launchpad.yaml`, and `my_qadapter.yaml`. To begin, make a directory called `fw_config` where you will store the four files described in greater detail below. The directory structure will look like the following:

    ```text
    fw_config
    ├── FW_config.yaml
    ├── my_fworker.yaml
    ├── my_launchpad.yaml
    └── my_qadapter.yaml
    ```

    **FW Config File**

    For the `FW_config.yaml`, you can use the following template. Make sure to update the path to the `fw_config` folder where the file resides.

    ```yaml title="FW_config.yaml"
    CONFIG_FILE_DIR: </path/to/fw_config>
    QUEUE_UPDATE_INTERVAL: 2
    ```

    You will also need to define a `FW_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable pointing to the `FW_config.yaml` file you made. For instance, in your `~/.bashrc` file, add the following line:
    `export FW_CONFIG_FILE="/path/to/config/fw_config/FW_config.yaml"`.

    **FWorker**

    For the `my_fworker.yaml`, you can use the following template. You do not need to make any modifications.

    ```yaml title="my_fworker.yaml"
    name: quacc_fworker
    category: ""
    query: "{}"
    ```

    **Launchpad**

    For the `my_launchpad.yaml`, you can use the following template. Replace the entries in `<>` with the appropriate values for your Mongo database.

    ```yaml title="my_launchpad.yaml"
    host: <host name>
    port: 27017
    name: <database name>
    username: <username>
    password: <password>
    logdir: null
    Istrm_lvl: DEBUG
    user_indices: []
    wf_user_indices: []
    ```

    !!! Note

        If you are accessing your MongoDB via a URI (e.g. as with MongoDB Atlas), then you will use the following `my_launchpad.yaml` template instead.

        ```yaml title="my_launchpad.yaml"
        host: <URI>
        port: 27017
        name: <database name>
        uri_store: true
        logdir: null
        Istrm_lvl: DEBUG
        user_indices: []
        wf_user_indices: []
        ```

    **QAdapter**

    Assuming you plan to use a queuing system for your compute jobs, you will need to make a `my_qadapter.yaml` file. For this, you will need to follow the instructions in the [FireWorks documentation](https://materialsproject.github.io/fireworks/qadapter_programming.html) for your specific job scheduling system. An example `my_qadapter.yaml` file is shown below for Slurm.

    ```yaml title="my_qadapter.yaml"
    _fw_name: CommonAdapter
    _fw_q_type: SLURM
    rocket_launch: rlaunch -w /path/to/fw_config/my_fworker.yaml singleshot
    nodes: 2
    walltime: 00:30:00
    account: <account>
    job_name: quacc_firework
    qos: regular
    pre_rocket: |
    module load vasp
    export QUACC_VASP_PARALLEL_CMD="srun -N 2 --ntasks-per-node=24 --cpu_bind=cores"
    ```

    In the above example, you would need to change the path in the `rocket_launch` field to the correct path to your `my_fworker.yaml`. The nodes, walltime, account, and qos are the corresponding parameters for your queuing system. Finally, anything in the `pre_rocket` field will be executed before the job begins running. It is a good place to load modules and set environment variables. A representative example has been provided above.

    **Database Initialization**

    !!! Warning

        Running `lpad reset` will clear your FireWorks launchpad, so only use this command if you are a new user.

    To check that FireWorks can connect to your database, run `lpad reset` if this is your first time using FireWorks.

Commit message:

Add installation instructions for Prefect

docs/install/wflow_engines.md, after:

# Workflow Engine Setup

Using a workflow engine is a crucial component for scaling up quacc calculations in a high-throughput setting. We describe the necessary installation steps here for the workflow manager of your choosing.

!!! Tip

    If you are just getting started with workflow engines, we recommend trying Covalent. For a comparison of the different compatible workflow engines, refer to the [Workflow Engines Overview](../user/wflow_overview.md) section.

=== "Covalent"

    **Starting the Server**

    Covalent uses a server to dispatch and store calculation details and results. To start the server, simply run `covalent start` in your terminal. It will return a URL that you can use to access the Covalent dashboard, which is shown below.

    ![Covalent UI](../images/install/ui_blank.jpg)

    !!! Tip

        Once you start scaling up your calculations, we recommend hosting the Covalent server on a dedicated machine or using [Covalent Cloud](https://www.covalent.xyz/cloud/). Refer to the [Covalent Deployment Guide](https://docs.covalent.xyz/docs/user-documentation/server-deployment) for details.

    **Plugin Installation**

    Depending on where you wish to run your quacc calculations, you may need to install the corresponding Covalent plugin, as described in the [Covalent plugin documentation](https://docs.covalent.xyz/docs/features/executor-plugins/exe). If you are using a typical HPC system with a job scheduler, you will probably want to use the [`HPCExecutor` plugin](https://github.com/arosen93/covalent-hpc-plugin), which supports Slurm, PBS, LSF, Flux, and more.

    **Optional Configuration**

    Covalent has several [configuration options](https://docs.covalent.xyz/docs/user-documentation/how-to/customization/) that can be modified. Running `quacc config` automatically takes care of setting the ones that are critical for quacc to run properly. If you ever delete your Covalent configuration (e.g. via `covalent purge`), you will need to re-run `quacc config`.

    !!! Tip

        If you are using Perlmutter at NERSC, you will need to set `export COVALENT_CONFIG_DIR="$SCRATCH/.config/covalent"` (e.g. in your `~/.bashrc`) because the home directory does not support file locking.

=== "Jobflow"

    **MongoDB Setup**

    Jobflow and FireWorks both require the use of a database to store calculation results. If you haven't done so already, first create a Mongo database as described in the ["MongoDB Setup"](config_db.md) section.

    !!! Note

        If it is not possible to use MongoDB, you can use a variety of other data store options available within the [maggma package](https://github.com/materialsproject/maggma), including a [`MontyStore`](https://materialsproject.github.io/maggma/reference/stores/#maggma.stores.mongolike.MontyStore) that solely relies on the local filesystem.

    **Jobflow DB Setup**

    If you plan to use Jobflow to write your workflows, you will need to make a `jobflow.yaml` file. This file will generally be formatted like the example below. Fill in the fields with the appropriate values for your MongoDB cluster, which is where all your calculation inputs and outputs will be stored.

    ```yaml title="jobflow.yaml"
    JOB_STORE:
    docs_store:
        type: MongoStore
        host: <host name>
        port: 27017
        username: <username>
        password: <password>
        database: <database name>
        collection_name: <collection name>
    ```

    !!! Note

        If you are using a URI (as is common with MongoDB Atlas), then you will instead have a `jobflow.yaml` file that looks like the example below. Here, you will put the full URI in the `host` field. The `username` and `password` are part of the URI and so should not be included elsewhere in the YAML file.

        ```yaml title="jobflow.yaml"
        JOB_STORE:
        docs_store:
            type: MongoStore
            host: <URI>
            port: 27017
            database: <database name>
            collection_name: <collection name>
        ```

    You will then need to define a `JOBFLOW_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable pointing to the file you made. For instance, in your `~/.bashrc` file, add the following line:
    `export JOBFLOW_CONFIG_FILE="/path/to/my/jobflow.yaml"`.

    **FireWorks Installation**

    To install quacc with support for FireWorks to launch Jobflow-generated workflows, run `pip install fireworks`.

    **FireWorks DB Setup**

    If you plan to use FireWorks to dispatch your Jobflow workflows, you will also need to make a few configuration files: `FW_config.yaml`, `my_fworker.yaml`, `my_launchpad.yaml`, and `my_qadapter.yaml`. To begin, make a directory called `fw_config` where you will store the four files described in greater detail below. The directory structure will look like the following:

    ```text
    fw_config
    ├── FW_config.yaml
    ├── my_fworker.yaml
    ├── my_launchpad.yaml
    └── my_qadapter.yaml
    ```

    **FW Config File**

    For the `FW_config.yaml`, you can use the following template. Make sure to update the path to the `fw_config` folder where the file resides.

    ```yaml title="FW_config.yaml"
    CONFIG_FILE_DIR: </path/to/fw_config>
    QUEUE_UPDATE_INTERVAL: 2
    ```

    You will also need to define a `FW_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable pointing to the `FW_config.yaml` file you made. For instance, in your `~/.bashrc` file, add the following line:
    `export FW_CONFIG_FILE="/path/to/config/fw_config/FW_config.yaml"`.

    **FWorker**

    For the `my_fworker.yaml`, you can use the following template. You do not need to make any modifications.

    ```yaml title="my_fworker.yaml"
    name: quacc_fworker
    category: ""
    query: "{}"
    ```

    **Launchpad**

    For the `my_launchpad.yaml`, you can use the following template. Replace the entries in `<>` with the appropriate values for your Mongo database.

    ```yaml title="my_launchpad.yaml"
    host: <host name>
    port: 27017
    name: <database name>
    username: <username>
    password: <password>
    logdir: null
    Istrm_lvl: DEBUG
    user_indices: []
    wf_user_indices: []
    ```

    !!! Note

        If you are accessing your MongoDB via a URI (e.g. as with MongoDB Atlas), then you will use the following `my_launchpad.yaml` template instead.

        ```yaml title="my_launchpad.yaml"
        host: <URI>
        port: 27017
        name: <database name>
        uri_store: true
        logdir: null
        Istrm_lvl: DEBUG
        user_indices: []
        wf_user_indices: []
        ```

    **QAdapter**

    Assuming you plan to use a queuing system for your compute jobs, you will need to make a `my_qadapter.yaml` file. For this, you will need to follow the instructions in the [FireWorks documentation](https://materialsproject.github.io/fireworks/qadapter_programming.html) for your specific job scheduling system. An example `my_qadapter.yaml` file is shown below for Slurm.

    ```yaml title="my_qadapter.yaml"
    _fw_name: CommonAdapter
    _fw_q_type: SLURM
    rocket_launch: rlaunch -w /path/to/fw_config/my_fworker.yaml singleshot
    nodes: 2
    walltime: 00:30:00
    account: <account>
    job_name: quacc_firework
    qos: regular
    pre_rocket: |
    module load vasp
    export QUACC_VASP_PARALLEL_CMD="srun -N 2 --ntasks-per-node=24 --cpu_bind=cores"
    ```

    In the above example, you would need to change the path in the `rocket_launch` field to the correct path to your `my_fworker.yaml`. The nodes, walltime, account, and qos are the corresponding parameters for your queuing system. Finally, anything in the `pre_rocket` field will be executed before the job begins running. It is a good place to load modules and set environment variables. A representative example has been provided above.

    **Database Initialization**

    !!! Warning

        Running `lpad reset` will clear your FireWorks launchpad, so only use this command if you are a new user.

    To check that FireWorks can connect to your database, run `lpad reset` if this is your first time using FireWorks.

=== "Parsl"

    In your activated Python environment, install Parsl via `pip install parsl`. Parsl has [many configuration options](https://parsl.readthedocs.io/en/stable/userguide/configuring.html), which we will cover later in the documentation.

=== "Prefect"

    1. In your activated Python environment, install Prefect and the necessary Dask dependencies via `pip install prefect prefect-dask dask-jobqueue`
    2. Make an account on [Prefect Cloud](https://app.prefect.cloud/)
    3. Make an [API Key](https://docs.prefect.io/cloud/users/api-keys/) and (optionally) store it in a `PREFECT_API_KEY` environment variable (e.g. in your `~/.bashrc`)
    4. Run `prefect cloud login` from the command-line and enter your API key (or use the browser, if possible)

    Additional configuration parameters can be modified, as described in the [Prefect documentation](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/settings/).
