docs/src/install/codes.md, before:

# DFT Package Setup

Here, we outline how to ensure that QuAcc can run the quantum chemistry package of your choosing. You only need to follow the instructions for the code(s) you intend to use.

## VASP

1. Define the `VASP_PP_PATH` environment variable that points to your pseudopotential library. See the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/vasp.html#pseudopotentials) for full details. We recommend including this in your `~/.bashrc` file.
2. To use vdW functionals, define the `ASE_VASP_VDW` environment variable to point to the `vdw_kernel.bindat` file distributed with VASP. Again, refer to the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/vasp.html#pseudopotentials) for additional details. We recommend including this in your `~/.bashrc` file.
3. To run VASP with Custodian (the default behavior in QuAcc), you will need to define a `VASP_PARALLEL_CMD` environment variable that tells Custodian how to parallelize VASP. For instance, this might look something like `export VASP_PARALLEL_CMD="srun -N 2 --ntasks-per-node 24"`. Note, the VASP executables are not included in this environment variable. For convenience, we recommend specifying this environment variable at runtime so you can easily modify it.
4. By default, Custodian will assume that the VASP executables can be run with `vasp_std` or `vasp_gam` for standard or gamma-point calculations. If you need to use different executable names or wish to change any Custodian settings from the selected defaults, refer to the section on modifying QuAcc settings.

## Gaussian

As noted in the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/gaussian.html), by default the executables named `g16`, `g09`, or `g03` will be searched (in order of decreasing preference) to run Gaussian. To use a different executable name, you will need to define an environment variable named `ASE_GAUSSIAN_COMMAND`. It should be of the form `ASE_GAUSSIAN_COMMAND="/path/to/my/gaussian_executable Gaussian.com > Gaussian.log"`.

## ORCA

As noted in the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/orca.html), to use ORCA in parallel mode, you will need to define an environment variable named `ASE_ORCA_COMMAND`. It should be of the form `ASE_ORCA_COMMAND="/path/to/my/orca orca.inp > orca.out"`.

## xTB

If you plan to use xTB with QuAcc, you will need to install the [xtb-python](https://github.com/grimme-lab/xtb-python) interface. This can be done via `conda install -c conda-forge xtb-python`.

## tblite

If you plan to use tblite with QuAcc, you will need to install the [tblite](https://github.com/tblite/tblite) interface with ASE support. This can be done via `pip install tblite[ase]`.

## Psi4

If you plan to use [Psi4](https://github.com/psi4/psi4) with QuAcc, you will need to install it prior to use. This can be done via `conda install -c psi4 psi4`.

## DFTB+

If you plan to use DFTB+ (which includes a separate interface to xTB) with QuAcc, you will need to install [DFTB+](https://dftbplus.org/). This can be done via `conda install -c conda-forge dftbplus`.

## Other Codes

For any other code, simply make sure to follow the instructions in [ASE's documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/calculators.html#supported-calculators) for setting up your desired calculator.

Commit message:

Initial attempt at GULP recipes

docs/src/install/codes.md, after:

# DFT Package Setup

Here, we outline how to ensure that QuAcc can run the quantum chemistry package of your choosing. You only need to follow the instructions for the code(s) you intend to use.

## VASP

1. Define the `VASP_PP_PATH` environment variable that points to your pseudopotential library. See the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/vasp.html#pseudopotentials) for full details. We recommend including this in your `~/.bashrc` file.
2. To use vdW functionals, define the `ASE_VASP_VDW` environment variable to point to the `vdw_kernel.bindat` file distributed with VASP. Again, refer to the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/vasp.html#pseudopotentials) for additional details. We recommend including this in your `~/.bashrc` file.
3. To run VASP with Custodian (the default behavior in QuAcc), you will need to define a `VASP_PARALLEL_CMD` environment variable that tells Custodian how to parallelize VASP. For instance, this might look something like `export VASP_PARALLEL_CMD="srun -N 2 --ntasks-per-node 24"`. Note, the VASP executables are not included in this environment variable. For convenience, we recommend specifying this environment variable at runtime so you can easily modify it.
4. By default, Custodian will assume that the VASP executables can be run with `vasp_std` or `vasp_gam` for standard or gamma-point calculations. If you need to use different executable names or wish to change any Custodian settings from the selected defaults, refer to the section on modifying QuAcc settings.

## Gaussian

As noted in the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/gaussian.html), by default the executables named `g16`, `g09`, or `g03` will be searched (in order of decreasing preference) to run Gaussian. To use a different executable name, you will need to define an environment variable named `ASE_GAUSSIAN_COMMAND`. It should be of the form `ASE_GAUSSIAN_COMMAND="/path/to/my/gaussian_executable Gaussian.com > Gaussian.log"`.

## ORCA

As noted in the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/orca.html), to use ORCA in parallel mode, you will need to define an environment variable named `ASE_ORCA_COMMAND`. It should be of the form `ASE_ORCA_COMMAND="/path/to/my/orca orca.inp > orca.out"`.

## xTB

If you plan to use xTB with QuAcc, you will need to install the [xtb-python](https://github.com/grimme-lab/xtb-python) interface. This can be done via `conda install -c conda-forge xtb-python`.

## tblite

If you plan to use tblite with QuAcc, you will need to install the [tblite](https://github.com/tblite/tblite) interface with ASE support. This can be done via `pip install tblite[ase]`.

## Psi4

If you plan to use [Psi4](https://github.com/psi4/psi4) with QuAcc, you will need to install it prior to use. This can be done via `conda install -c psi4 psi4`.

## DFTB+

If you plan to use [DFTB+](https://dftbplus.org/) (which includes a separate interface to xTB) with QuAcc, you will need to install [DFTB+](https://dftbplus.org/). This can be done via `conda install -c conda-forge dftbplus`.

# GULP

As noted in the [ASE documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/gulp.html), if you plan to use [GULP](https://gulp.curtin.edu.au/), you must set the environment variables `GULP_LIB="/path/to/my/gulp-#.#.#/Libraries"` and `$ASE_GULP_COMMAND="/path/to/my/gulp-#.#.#/gulp < gulp.gin > gulp.got"`.

## Other Codes

For any other code, simply make sure to follow the instructions in [ASE's documentation](https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/calculators.html#supported-calculators) for setting up your desired calculator.
