docs/about/contributors.md, before:

# People

## Lead Developers

Quacc was originally designed and developed by [Andrew S. Rosen](https://cbe.princeton.edu/people/andrew-rosen).

## Active Maintainers

The currently active maintainers are as follows:

- [@Andrew_S_Rosen](https://github.com/Quantum-Accelerators/quacc)

## Contributors

Additional contributions were made by the individuals listed [here](https://github.com/quantum-accelerators/quacc/graphs/contributors). Their contributions are summarized below.

!!! Note "Add Your Name!"

    Don't see your name and want to update the list? Submit a PR and update this documentation page!

- [@kumaranu](https://github.com/kumaranu): NewtonNet recipes.
- [@nekkrad](https://github.com/nekkrad): ONETEP recipes.
- [@rwexler](https://github.com/rwexler): Defect utilities and EMT defect recipe.
- [@samblau](https://github.com/samblau): Custom Q-Chem calculator, Q-Chem recipes.
- [@tomdemeyere](https://github.com/tomdemeyere): Custom Espresso calculator, Espresso recipes.
- [@ViktoriiaBaib](https://github.com/ViktoriiaBaib): Initial testing of quacc.
- [@zulissimeta](https://github.com/zulissimeta): Dask support
- [@yw-fang](https://github.com/yw-fang): VASP Non-SCF recipe
- [@espottesmith](http://github.com/espottesmith): Some ORCA and Q-Chem workflows, mostly re: IRC

## Inspiration

Quacc was originally inspired by [Atomate2](https://github.com/materialsproject/atomate2), developed by [Alex Ganose](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/a.ganose).

Commit message:

updating contributors.md (#2286)
## Summary of Changes

This PR updates the `contributors.md`, adding a brief contribution I did
(#2163).

### Requirements

- Your PR should be focused on a [single feature addition or
bugfix](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/best-practices-for-pull-requests#write-small-prs).
- Your PR should have relevant, comprehensive [unit
tests](https://quantum-accelerators.github.io/quacc/dev/contributing.html#unit-tests).
- Your PR should be on a custom branch and _not_ be named `main`.

### Notes

- Before contributing for the first time, read the ["Guidelines"
section](https://quantum-accelerators.github.io/quacc/dev/contributing.html#guidelines).
- If you are an external contributor, you will see a comment from
[@buildbot-princeton](https://github.com/buildbot-princeton). This is
solely for the maintainers.
- When your code is ready for review, ping one of the [active
maintainers](https://quantum-accelerators.github.io/quacc/about/contributors.html#active-maintainers).

---------

Co-authored-by: Andrew S. Rosen <asrosen93@gmail.com>

docs/about/contributors.md, after:

# People

## Lead Developers

Quacc was originally designed and developed by [Andrew S. Rosen](https://cbe.princeton.edu/people/andrew-rosen).

## Active Maintainers

The currently active maintainers are as follows:

- [@Andrew_S_Rosen](https://github.com/Quantum-Accelerators/quacc)

## Contributors

Additional contributions were made by the individuals listed [here](https://github.com/quantum-accelerators/quacc/graphs/contributors). Their contributions are summarized below.

!!! Note "Add Your Name!"

    Don't see your name and want to update the list? Submit a PR and update this documentation page!

- [@kumaranu](https://github.com/kumaranu): NewtonNet recipes.
- [@nekkrad](https://github.com/nekkrad): ONETEP recipes.
- [@rwexler](https://github.com/rwexler): Defect utilities and EMT defect recipe.
- [@samblau](https://github.com/samblau): Custom Q-Chem calculator, Q-Chem recipes.
- [@tomdemeyere](https://github.com/tomdemeyere): Custom Espresso calculator, Espresso recipes.
- [@ViktoriiaBaib](https://github.com/ViktoriiaBaib): Initial testing of quacc.
- [@zulissimeta](https://github.com/zulissimeta): Dask support
- [@yw-fang](https://github.com/yw-fang): VASP Non-SCF recipe
- [@espottesmith](http://github.com/espottesmith): Some ORCA and Q-Chem workflows, mostly re: IRC
- [@honghuikim](https://github.com/honghuikim): Dynamic changing of quacc settings with workflow engines

## Inspiration

Quacc was originally inspired by [Atomate2](https://github.com/materialsproject/atomate2), developed by [Alex Ganose](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/a.ganose).
